Now let's continue with our optimizations by first taking a look at the cash BHP file which can be found
inside the config folder of your a lot of application so it configure So what is the default cash storage
or cache driver.
And as I've said by default it is a file anyway.
It is being configured inside your dot and file so whatever is there will always take precedence if
it's not configured.
This would be assumed as a file.
Now here you can configure the cache stores so the places or mechanism of storing your cached data so
obviously.
And as usual Lavell has some default sensible configurations so there is one for database you can store
it inside memory but that will only work for one request inside a race you can store it inside APC.
There is also the file driver which I've mentioned and here you can see where this data will be actually
stored.
So it is the framework directory inside storage so you can see framework cache data.
So this is where your cache will be currently start.
If you are using the file mechanism.
Also there is a configuration for the main cached so you can configure the host and part of the main
cache server.
And this is taken directly from the end file.
So if you would like to configure it then you should put those variables inside your dot and file.
Now the final mechanism of the cache storage is the Redis one and then there is the connection called
cache so to configure this connection you will go to the database BHP file
and here you have the cache connection.
So it's using the also the environment variables.
So for the development your set that inside inside your dot and file and on your server you will put
that as an environment variable.
Okay.
So those are the basics of that configuration.
Another thing you might know which is an interesting thing to know is that a lot of us will try to use
our prefix for all the keys that you put inside your cache storage.
And this is because as it says sometimes if you use cache storages which can also be used for something
else for example the APC is basically are BHP default cash when it tries to compile some of the code
or optimize the BHP itself it is using APC so to not create then conflict names because basically as
I've said that cash is a key value storage so you just have a key which could be a string and then you
fetch some value by that key.
So not to create conflicts it will append R prefix to all your keys that you will use for your caching
OK.
So let's go to our page and probably the thing that we can immediately cash is those what you see on
the right.
The most commented blog posts and those information about the most active users because it won't really
it won't change often.
And another thing to consider when you are cashing some data is whether it is crucial for you to get
the fresh data.
Each single time and what I mean by fresh data is the data that is up to date with what is inside the
database.
So when you have a blog you probably would like all the blog posts to be immediately visible when someone
adds them but those information about who was active in general or in the last month might be out of
date.
Nothing bad will happen.
It's not crucial for our application to function properly.
So we are not having an e-commerce store here.
So we are not reading orders or user data or products or the actual prices of them.
We read data or we show data that is interesting fun but not crucial.
It doesn't really have to be up to date.
So let's see how we can store that in cash and read it from cash instead of making the query every single
time.
So let's open a lot of debug bar by clicking on the query stop.
And now you see that we are making 5 queries so let's go to our post controller.
By the way you won't need this code any more so I can safely remove that along with the import of the
db file say because now we have a lot of old debug bar for this purpose.
So the first thing we can have here is we can read the most commented blog posts.
So let's take a look at the diagram so we'll put a layer between our storage which is my sequel and
lock one and first we'll ask the cache if it contains an element.
If it's not only then we'll ask to actually fetch it from the database.
So obviously Lavell makes it very easy for us to do so.
There is a phosphate class to interact with the cache so this is the first one on the list.
You can see the namespace here.
Just press enter.
So this would add an import which you can see here.
If you do not have those plugins in Visual Studio code make sure to add them or just type this import
anyway.
The method that we all use right now is called remember and it's very useful and neat thing.
So what it accepts are free arguments.
So the first one is the key.
So that's the cache key under which we would like to store something.
So first let's get the most commented.
So that would be our key most commented.
Now the second argument is for how long you would like to store it.
So you can see that the argument name here is called minutes but it would be minutes if you will provide
the value as an integer and you can see here in the method header that it doesn't have to be an integer.
It can be a date interval for example.
So you can also use seconds for example if we'll create a new instance of that car bomb which is an
equivalent of a date time and use at seconds method on it immediately.
We can store something for 10 seconds so whenever someone will attempt to read it in the 10 seconds
since we say we started it started inside the cache he will get the cache diversions otherwise it will
be read from the database and now the final thing is two other closure which will provide a default
value.
So what this means is cache remember means give me what's inside the cache storage under the most commented
key and if it's not there.
Store it for this amount of time and here from disclosure we return the value that we actually wants
to be puts there so we can get this query move it to the closure and obviously we have to return that
and now here will just past and most comment that variable
so let's see what we did.
Now refresh the page now you see we still have five queries but if you refresh again now you see we
have four queries.
So what that means is exactly what we have on our diagram.
So we are tragic trying to fetch the data through the cache layer if it's found it is being returned
immediately but if it is not found it is bang first fetched from the database stored inside the cache
and then returned to the user by the next user visiting the page which I tried to simulate by just refreshing
the page would get the cached result.
So this might of course have some problems with it because if you cache some information then you either
have to store it for short time or somehow remove it from the cache if the data is no longer valid.
So for example let's see we would cache the blog posts that we see here but someone adds a new blog
post and we want to show that immediately.
Then you will have to somehow reset the cache.
So that's one of the problems you will have when you will use caching.
We'll do that in the next lecture.
But now let's also see if we can cache some other queries that we are making here because most definitely
this won't change very often.
So things like most active users so let's are the most active and most active last month.
So now we can cache all these data I'm copying this code just to make it quicker for myself.
You can also do that now inside the most active.
We should put this query or result of this query and most active last month goes here
and here we return this same variables so most active and most active last month and now the most important
change as every cash item has to have a unique key.
I need to modify those keys so this is where you get when you copy the code.
You might forget about something.
Okay so this is fine.
Now we have free cash cached items and then on initial view of that Post's page will get all the queries
executed.
But then for the next 60 minutes we'll have them cashed.